DC and Controlled Environments (#105)
ietf-wg-ccwg/rfc5033bis: draft-ietf-ccwg-rfc5033bis.md

are invited to publish as an Informational RFC via the Independent Stream Editor
(ISE).

# Specifying Algorithms for use in Controlled Environments

Algorithms can be designed for general Internet deployment or for use in controlled environments.
A controlled environment can form all or part of the Internet path

> or might carry network traffic that is isolated from the end-to-end path.

Reviewer: I confess that I don't know what this sentence means: 
  "might carry network traffic that is isolated from the end-to-end path"
Sorry if I'm being dense. :-)

Author: Not dense, the relocated text didn't make sense. New words suggested.

Reviewer: Thanks! Looks good to me now at f1d5dd25a0ba4e7831bef9958f00e60083e183e1

Algorithms that rely on specific functions or
configurations in a network need to provide a reference or specification for these functions
(an RFC or another stable specification).
The IETF will need to assess whether the relevant working group is able review the
proposed new algorithm and whether there is sufficient experience to
understand any dependent functions.

A data center is an example of a controlled environment, which often deploys fabrics with rich
signalling from switches to endpoints. Furthermore, an operator can often limit
the number of operating congestion controls.
Many data centers are characterized by very low latencies (< 2 ms) and can support
specific workloads (e.g., that introduce bursty traffic
where many nodes complete a task at the same time).

In evaluating a new proposal for use in a controlled environment, the IETF needs
to understand the usage, e.g., how the usage is scoped to the controlled environment,
whether the algorithm will share resources with Internet traffic
and consider what could happen if used in a protocol that is bridged across an Internet path.
Algorithms that are designed for special environments and are forbidden from use

> in the general Internet, might instead seek real-world data for those environments.

Reviewer 2: Can you add something here to the effect of "the criteria in the remainder of this document might not apply?"

and consider what could happen if used in a protocol that is bridged across an Internet path.
Algorithms that are designed for special environments and are forbidden from use
in the general Internet, might instead seek real-world data for those environments.

> In such cases, the following evaluation criteria might not apply.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In such cases, the evaluation criteria in the remainder of this document might not apply.
```
